# Internationalization

We utilize the Transifex Native service for managing translations, which enables our app to receive translated strings at runtime directly from the Transifex service. Consequently, we do not store any translations within our codebase.

## Using translations

You can leverage the Transifex Native **JavaScript SDK** directly to translate strings in your code: [Transifex Native JavaScript Docs](https://developers.transifex.com/docs/javascript-sdk-internationalize-code)

Alternatively, when utilizing translations in **React components**, you can employ the components and hooks provided by the `@transifex/react` package: [Transifex React Docs](https://developers.transifex.com/docs/react-sdk#usage)

Both packages are already installed within our project. Transifex recommends using the `T` and `UT` **React components** whenever possible, as they provide a more efficient approach over the JavaScript SDK.

## Adding new translation strings

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure that the `TRANSIFEX_API_SECRET` and `TRANSIFEX_API_TOKEN` variables in your local `.env` file are correctly set for this to function properly.

After introducing a new string to your code that requires translation, you need to push it to Transifex. This should be done after the feature is complete and the PR has been merged into main, but before a production deployment is initiated.

You can execute the following command locally to scan the source directory and upload all strings to Transifex:

```bash
npm run transifex:push
```

## Definition of done for translations

We want to ensure that the application is accessible to as many people as possible. Before deploying a feature to production, all strings must be translated into at least English and German.
